- [Instructor] When working with collections,
it's important to have a good understanding of interfaces
because they're used heavily by the framework.
So let's just make sure you're solid on the concept.
That way, you're successful with collections.
On the left-hand side of my screen,
I have an interface named Contract.
I chose that name because the idea of a contract
is commonly used to explain an interface.
An interface is an abstract type,
so that means we can't create an instance of it.
And for our purposes right now,
we're going to say that it cannot define methods
with a body that contain code.
On the interface we can define abstract methods.
So let's go ahead and add one to the interface named term1.
Abstract methods define the roles or terms for a class
that wants to implement the interface.
Any abstract method on the interface
must appear on a class known as an implementation
that implements the interface.
So on the right-hand side of my screen,
you'll notice I have a class named Implementation.
If we would like this class to implement
the contract interface,
all we need to do is type implements,
and then the name of the interface,
which in this case, is Contract.
Now, as soon as we do that,
you'll notice the compiler in my IDE start to complain.
Let's see what's up.
So if we hover over the error,
you'll notice that it's complaining
because our implementation
hasn't defined a method named term1.
This method is required because the implementation class
implements the contract interface.
It's kind of like we're saying the interface,
or the contract, is a template for what methods
should be found on the implementation class.
When the compiler sees the class
doesn't match the template, it complains.
So let's go ahead and add this method to the class.
Just click on add unimplemented methods,
and the IDE will automatically add it
to the body of your class.
Now, inside of this method,
I'm just going to print some console output.
That way, when we execute this code,
we can see what methods invoked.
Okay. So now the implementation has satisfied the terms
of the contract interface.
Let's see what happens if we add a new abstract method.
So I'm just going to add another abstract method named
term2, and look what happened.
Immediately, the compiler complains.
You can probably guess why.
It's because there is a new method on our contract interface
that isn't found on the implementation.
So we added a new role or term to the contract,
and it's not satisfied.
Let's go ahead and satisfy the contract
by adding the method.
And then once again,
I'm just going to add some console output
to help us understand the execution of our code.
All right, with that in place,
we're going to now navigate over to the application class
and here, we're going to use our new contract interface
and its implementation.
So to do that,
I'm going to declare a variable of type contract.
And then, I'm going to instantiate the implementation
and assign it to the contract.
This works because the implementation implements
the contract interface.
And then we can take that object and pass it to anywhere
the contract interface is accepted.
So you'll notice the method signature
for the print terms method has a parameter
of type contract.
So we can pass our contract object into it.
And then inside the body of the method,
we can use that interface to invoke term1 and term2
on our object.
Okay, let's see what happens.
We'll execute this code after we save everything.
And you'll notice term1 and term2 are printed
to the console.
Okay, so we got to cover one final point
that's really important.
And that's inheritance.
Yep, an interface can extend another interface.
So I've created another interface named ExtendedContract.
And on that interface,
I've specified an abstract method named extendedTerm.
What we're going to do is have our contract interface
extend this new interface.
To do that, it's just like inheritance with a class.
We just type extends,
and then the name of the interface
we would like the contract interface to extend.
Now what's going to happen is the contract interface
is now going to expect its implementations
to include the extended term method
because of this inheritance relationship.
And our old friend, the compiler's back.
So you'll notice it's complaining.
Probably can guess why.
It's because our implementation class,
which implements the contract interface,
doesn't have the method that the contract interface
just inherited from ExtendedContract.
Let's go ahead, and we can add that method to the class.
And then I'm going to add
a little bit more debugging output here, just to help us.
All right, so we'll just print this information
to the console.
And I shortened it up.
We just said, extended.
Now let's save all of our work.
And then we can head over to the application class.
And if we take a look at our contract interface,
you'll now see the extended term method appear
because it's now part of that interface through inheritance.
Okay, I'm going to save this and then we can go ahead.
We'll execute our code.
So when we execute this code,
you'll notice that all three methods
defined on the contract interface
and implemented by the implementation class
have been invoked.
When working with collections,
you'll need to understand how interfaces work
to be successful.
The use of inheritance between interfaces
is a central concept underlying the collections framework
that builds relationships between the core interfaces,
and defines what methods you'll have available
to work with on a collection.